Subject: Steps to prepare for tomorrow's R workshop

Hi,

You are receiving this email because you have registered for the RCC
Workshop, "Large-scale data analysis in R", happening Monday, November
13, The main aim of this workshop is give you a solid footing for
transitioning from INTERACTIVE (exploratory) data analysis in R to
NON-INTERACTIVE (automated) large-scale data analysis. This will
involve: (1) making most effective use of computational resources on
the RCC cluster (managing memory, parallel/multithreaded computing),
and (2) using R in combination with the SLURM job engine to run
hundreds of data analyses simultaneously.

NOTE: If you have little or no experience with R, or if you are
unfamiliar with basic shell commands for navigating the file system
(e.g., ls, cd, cp, cat), you will most likely have difficulty
following the examples in class and completing the exercises.

I'd like to make good use of the very short time we have together, so
please complete the following steps BEFORE coming to the workshop
tomorrow afternoon.

1. You will use the RCC cluster throughout the tutorial. Please make
sure you can connect to midway2.rcc.uchicago.edu with your RCC
account. If you are not sure how to do this, please see:
https://rcc.uchicago.edu/docs/connecting. If you do not have an RCC
account, please email me so that I can give you access to the RCC
cluster for the workshop.

2. You will transfer files from the RCC cluster to your laptop. Please
make sure you know how to use either scp or SAMBA for transfering
files. See: https://rcc.uchicago.edu/docs/data-transfer

3. You will need to use a text-based editor (e.g., emacs, vim,
nano). If you are not well acquainted with one, I suggest you try out
nano.

4. There will be several mini-exercises during the workshop. We will
use Etherpad to share results and questions during the exercises.
Please access this link below and add your name, department and laptop
OS under "Introductions":
https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/rcc-13-nov-2017

A couple final notes:

1. You may use RStudio, but I strongly advise you to use R instead.

2. At the beginning of the workshop, I will provide you with a link to
download a packet containing all the materials needed to follow the
demonstrations and complete the exercises.

Thank you,

Peter Carbonetto, Ph.D.
Research Computing Center
University of Chicago
